Document Front-Commerce Payment module and migration (FC-672) (#232)
front-commerce/developers.front-commerce.com: docs/advanced/payments/existing-domain-events.mdx

---
sidebar_position: 5.4
title: Existing Domain Events

> description: See the detailed list of existing Domain Events.

Reviewer: Have you a proposal ? I struggle to find another way to describe this page :/

> description: See the detailed list of existing Domain Events.

Reviewer 2: maybe something like:

Front-Commerce payment mechanism is event based. This page lists the available
payment domain events.

> description: See the detailed list of existing Domain Events.

Reviewer: seems good, thanks :slightly_smiling_face:  :+1:

change.

Event listeners can use this information to maintain a consistent state in a
remote system. For instance, an eCommerce integration will implement an Order
event listeners responsible for updating the order status accordingly on a
headless eCommerce platform.

Note: each event is based on a `PurchaseIdentifier` allowing Front-Commerce to
retrieve the related order based on either an orderId or the cartId that was
used before the order creation.

## The paymentData attribute

Most events allows you to provide custom, optional and arbitrary `paymentData`
values. These values may contain data specific to the payment platform. We
recommend that event listeners push these information to remote systems as they
usually can be helpful for further processing (e.g: synchronizing a headless
eCommerce platform with an ERP)

Example: Front-Commerce Magento's integration, will append this `paymentData` as
a JSON payload to the order history comment message.

## PaymentAuthenticationStarted

The authentication of the payment started (e.g. 3D Secure control step)

```js
import PaymentAuthenticationStarted from "server/modules/front-commerce/payment/domain/events/PaymentCaptureStarted";

> return [new PaymentAuthenticationStarted(new PurchaseIdentifier({ orderId }, pspReference, authenticationMethodName, paymentData)),

Reviewer 2: I guess it should be:

```suggestion
return [new PaymentAuthenticationStarted(new PurchaseIdentifier({ orderId }), pspReference, authenticationMethodName, paymentData))];
```

but why returning an array ? and even why do we even put that code in the documentation ? I mean the class is already properly annotated so this does bring anything except that we'll have to maintain both the code and the example here.

Instead, I think this page should just list all events with a description of what they means. The parameter description should be in the doc block (if needed)

Reviewer: In fact, integrators are copy/pasting the code from the documentation, checking the implementation is an effort they only bear when they have no other choice. 

(I do the same most of the time : when I don't know what to write, I struggle more than get the idea to search for the doc in the node_modules)

Reviewer 2: if you put a link to the code, the instantiating the event is trivial and we avoid the risk of having an inconsistent documentation.

Reviewer: You're right, I put links in the doc and improved the jsdoc, see : https://gitlab.com/front-commerce/front-commerce/-/merge_requests/1506

```

- `pspReference` : the reference of the transaction on the payment provider side
- `authenticationMethodName` : optional, provides the authentication method used

>   by the payment provider in the order history

Reviewer 2: in addition to the comment just above, that should be in the code (that's already the case for `authenticationMethodName`)

## PaymentAuthorized

The payment was authorized by the bank/payment provider, although it can be
considered successful, it may not have been captured (collected) yet.

```js
import PaymentAuthorized from "server/modules/front-commerce/payment/domain/events/PaymentAuthorized";

return [
  new PaymentAuthorized(

>     new PurchaseIdentifier({ orderId }, pspReference, paymentData)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    new PurchaseIdentifier({ orderId }), pspReference, paymentData)
```

(same below)

  ),
];
```

- `pspReference` : the reference of the transaction on the payment provider side

## PaymentCancelled

The payment was cancelled by the user

```js
import PaymentCancelled from "server/modules/front-commerce/payment/domain/events/PaymentCancelled";

return [new PaymentCancelled(new PurchaseIdentifier({ orderId }, reason))];
```

> - `reason` : the reference of the transaction on the payment provider side

Reviewer 2: wrong description

Reviewer: removed

---
sidebar_position: 5.3
title: Existing Domain Events
description: See the detailed list of existing Domain Events.
---

> # Early Notification Events

Author: **issue:** these aren't domain events. It is domain value objects or  commands.\
Mentioning it here makes it more complex to understand

**suggestion:** remove this section from here, and document it in a separate page or a section about implementing notification processors

Reviewer: move to a new NotificationProcessor section

Early notifications can be used by notification processors to acknowledge or
reject a notification for security reasons (invalid authenticity proof).

See usage of `NotificationProcessor.getEarlyNotificationAck` in the
[Custom Payment Method](./custom-payment-method.mdx) page

## AcknowledgeNotification

When a notification is acknowledged the payment provider is answered with a
status 200 - OK

```js
import { AcknowledgeNotification } from "server/modules/front-commerce/payment/domain/notificationAckValues";

return [new AcknowledgeNotification("message");
```

## RefuseNotification

When a notification is refused the payment provider is answered with a status
403 - Forbidden

```js
import { RefuseNotification } from "server/modules/front-commerce/payment/domain/notificationAckValues";

return [new RefuseNotification("message");
```

# Payment events

> Payment events allow to push statuses to an order.

Author: ```suggestion
Payment events allow to inform payment event listeners about a payment status change.
```

> Those event will also update the order status accordingly.

Author: ```suggestion
Event listeners can use this information to maintain a consistent state in a remote system.  For instance, an eCommerce   integration will implement an Order event listeners responsible for updating the order status accordingly on a headless eCommerce platform.
```

> Note : each event is based on a `PurchaseIdentifier` allowing Front-Commerce to

Author: ```suggestion
Note: each event is based on a `PurchaseIdentifier` allowing Front-Commerce to
```

retrieve the related order based on either an orderId or the cartId that was
used before the order creation.

## The paymentData attribute

> Most events allow you to push custom and optional `paymentData` to the order
> history that can be helpfull for batch processing of the orders (e.g. ERP
> integration).

Author: ```suggestion
Most events allows you to provide custom, optional and arbitrary `paymentData` values. These values may contain data specific to the payment platform.
We recommend that event listeners push these information  to remote systems as they usually can be helpful for further processing (e.g: synchronizing a headless eCommerce platform with an ERP)
```

> With Magento, this `paymentData` is provided as an appended JSON payload to the
> history comment message.

Author: ```suggestion
Example: Front-Commerce Magento's integration, will append this `paymentData` as a JSON payload to the
order history comment message.
```

## PaymentAuthenticationStarted

The authentication of the payment started (e.g. 3D Secure control step)

```js
import PaymentAuthenticationStarted from "server/modules/front-commerce/payment/domain/events/PaymentCaptureStarted";

return [new PaymentAuthenticationStarted(new PurchaseIdentifier({ orderId }, pspReference, authenticationMethodName, paymentData)),
```

- `pspReference` : the reference of the transaction on the payment provider side

> - `authenticationMethodName` : optionnal, provide the authentication method used

Author: ```suggestion
- `authenticationMethodName` : optional, provides the authentication method used
```

  by the payment provider in the order history

## PaymentAuthorized

The payment was authorized by the bank/payment provider, although it can be

> considered successfull, it may not have been captured(collected) yet.

Author: ```suggestion
considered successful, it may not have been captured (collected) yet.
```

return [
  new PaymentReceived(
    new PurchaseIdentifier({ orderId }, pspReference, reason)
  ),
];
```

- `pspReference` : the reference of the transaction on the payment provider side

## PaymentCaptureStarted

The payment capture was asked and is in progress.

```js
import PaymentCaptureStarted from "server/modules/front-commerce/payment/domain/events/PaymentCaptureStarted";

return [
  new PaymentCaptureStarted(new PurchaseIdentifier({ orderId }, paymentData)),
];
```

## PaymentCaptured

The payment was captured by the payment provider, this is the last event
expected on a succeeding order.

```js
import PaymentCaptured from "server/modules/front-commerce/payment/domain/events/PaymentCaptured";

return [new PaymentCaptured(new PurchaseIdentifier({ orderId }, paymentData))];
```

## PaymentCaptureFailed

The payment was not captured by the payment provider, the payment will have to
be recovered by the customer service team.

```js
import PaymentCaptureFailed from "server/modules/front-commerce/payment/domain/events/PaymentCaptureFailed";

return [
  new PaymentCaptureFailed(new PurchaseIdentifier({ orderId }, paymentData)),
];
```

## PaymentRefused

> The payment was rejected, this will cancel the order.

Author: ```suggestion
The payment was rejected. The order must be cancelled.
```
